[Music]
one of the strangest deep-sea animals is
a tube worm it could be ten seat long
this is really small this animal has no
mouth has no good has no anus it's just
a bag of bacteria and a gill on the top
these animals live on chemicals in the
water that comes spewing out of the sea
floor they're toxic to us
hydrogen sulfide methane
[Music]
[Applause]
they have enzyme called luciferin that
shines light in response to some
stimulus so it's all outside of the
sunlit zones is in the deep sea this is
some 6000 meters and deeper this is an
amphipod they're normally the size of a
flea we don't know why it is some people
think that it's the amount of oxygen
that they need and require some say if
you're bigger it's harder for something
to eat you
so gigantism is just one of the many
mysteries we have in the deep sea the
things we don't understand our discovery
rate is so great we go down there and we
find new species every time we go out at
hydrothermal vents alone we've
discovered on average a new species
every 10 days for 35 years
and we've only explored less than 1% of
our deep ocean so it's an area that is
completely mysterious to us and ripe for
discovery
whether it's our deepest living fish or
amphipods they have molecules in their
cells that protect proteins and they
firm up the cell and make it functional
we have a myriad of diseases like
Alzheimer's muscular dystrophy that all
are based on protein dysfunction and if
we can harness these enzymes these
molecules to actually help protein
function in humans then we've solved a
lot of diseases but we haven't looked to
these deep-sea animals yet to do this I
think that's going to be the future of
what we're going to be looking at
we have reports in the last two weeks of
plastics being eaten by animals in our
deepest ocean to chiefest trenches ten
thousand meters we are already
everywhere before we can learn what's
there we're in a race we're trying to
catch up we're trying to figure out what
are the disturbances that were causing
and what impact doesn't have all the
animals it's very real and it's
happening now we're seeing the
distribution of animals shift in the
deep ocean
we've got whales that feed at over 2,000
meters on the bottom we got sharks that
go at least a thousand meters deep you
can't separate the deep sea from us for
much longer we are having an impact it's
all part of the ecosystem that we're a
part of and the sooner we realize that
the better off we'll be as a species
[Music]
you